README.adoc, before:

= Training
This training is based on Docker, but since Docker has defined the initial specification of containerization, it is applicable to containerization itself, no matter what runtime is used.

The training covers the following containerization topics:

. Introduction to Containerization  
We compare containerization to virtualization and discuss the advantages of containerization compared to virtualization.

. Containerization Basics  
We discuss the Linux technologies such as namespaces, which are used by containerization and that a container is nothing but a isolated process on the host.

. Creating Images  
We discuss what container images are, how they are set up, and how to build container images efficiently.

. Container Volumes  
We discuss how to store persistent data of containers in volumes, how the volumes work, and how to use them efficiently.

. Docker System Commands  
We discuss the system commands Docker provides, for instance for housekeeping.

. Container Networking  
We discuss the container networking model, the different types of networks, and how to use container networks properly.

. Docker-Compose  
We discuss composing multiple service with Docker-Compose.

The objective of this training is that trainees understand containerization with Docker and can use containerization in there daily work.

== Training resources

We provide the following resource for this training which can be downloaded from this repositories releases.

The release archive contains the following resources.

* `presentation` +
A asciidoc/revealjs based HMTL presentation
* `exercises` +
Asciidoc based HTML with the exercises
* `resources` +
Additional resources for the training such as exmaple applictions

== Training environment

The training environment will be provided to by your trainer, and is used for hands on with Docker. You will connect to the environment via ssh, whereby the ssh public key will be provided to you, and is only valid for the provisioned environment during the training.

.Connect to your environment.
[source,bash]
----
ssh ubuntu@<PROVIDED_AWS_URI> -i <PROVIDED_PUBLIC_KEY>
----

.Copy a directory to the environment.
[source,bash]
----
scp -r <LOCAL_DIR_PATH> buntu@<PROVIDED_AWS_URI>:<REMOTE_PATH> -i <PROVIDED_PUBLIC_KEY>
----

.Copy a directory from the environment.
[source,bash]
----
scp -r buntu@<PROVIDED_AWS_URI>:<REMOTE_PATH> <LOCAL_DIR_PATH> -i <PROVIDED_PUBLIC_KEY>
----

== Trainer 

This section is for trainers only, and documents how to prepare for a training.

=== Render Presentation/Exercises

The presentation and exercises are asciidoc resources whereby the presentation can be rendered to PDF via a http-server and a chromium browser. +
The exercises can be printed via a browser as any other website.

NOTE: All following commands must be either executed in the directory `/presentation` or `/exercises`. 

==== If Node is installed

.Get dependencies
[source,bash]
----
npm update
----

.Converts asciidoc to HTML
[source,bash]
----
node convert.js
----

==== If you want to use Docker

Get dependencies
```
docker run --rm \
-v $(pwd):/home/node \
-w /home/node node:latest \
npm update
```

.Render to HTML
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm \
-v $(pwd):/home/node \
-w /home/node node:18.7.0 \
convert.js
----

=== HTML to PDF

This applies only for the `presentation`.

1. Start webserver

.With node installed
[source,bash]
----
node_modules/http-server/bin/http-server
----

.With Docker 
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm \
-v $(pwd):/home/node \
-p 8080:8080 \
-w /home/node node:18.7.0 \
node_modules/http-server/bin/http-server
----

2. Open in Chrome/Chromium browser `http://localhost:8080/presentation?print-pdf` or `http://localhost:8080/exercises?print-pdf`
3. Open Chrome browser print dialog and save as pdf.

== Provision an training environment in AWS

We use AWS to provision a training environment, which is based on this link:https://github.com/Gepardec/train[git repository] which provides  
a link:https://github.com/Gepardec/train/pkgs/container/train[container image] which uses Terraform to provision the training environment.
These link:https://gepardec.github.io/train/[Github Pages] provide the documentation how our provisioning in AWS works.

You need Docker, an active AWS account and a set up AWS CLI on the host you want to provision the environment from.

NOTE: All of the following commands must be executed in the `/aws` directory.

.Provision an training environment
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm -it \
-v $(echo ~)/.aws:/root/.aws:ro \
-v $(pwd):/opt/train/workdir \
-v $(pwd)/bootstrap.sh:/opt/train/terraform/files/bootstrap/bootstrap.sh \
gepardec/train:latest apply
----

.De-provision an training environment
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm -it \
-v $(echo ~)/.aws:/root/.aws:ro \
-v $(pwd):/opt/train/workdir \
-v $(pwd)/bootstrap.sh:/opt/train/terraform/files/bootstrap/bootstrap.sh \
gepardec/train:latest destroy
----

Commit message:

Updated the README with the new resources added and the github pages link

README.adoc, after:

= Training
This training is based on Docker, but since Docker has defined the initial specification of containerization, it is applicable to containerization itself, no matter what runtime is used.

The training covers the following containerization topics:

. Introduction to Containerization  
We compare containerization to virtualization and discuss the advantages of containerization compared to virtualization.

. Containerization Basics  
We discuss the Linux technologies such as namespaces, which are used by containerization and that a container is nothing but a isolated process on the host.

. Creating Images  
We discuss what container images are, how they are set up, and how to build container images efficiently.

. Container Volumes  
We discuss how to store persistent data of containers in volumes, how the volumes work, and how to use them efficiently.

. Docker System Commands  
We discuss the system commands Docker provides, for instance for housekeeping.

. Container Networking  
We discuss the container networking model, the different types of networks, and how to use container networks properly.

. Docker-Compose  
We discuss composing multiple service with Docker-Compose.

The objective of this training is that trainees understand containerization with Docker and can use containerization in there daily work.

== Training resources

We provide the following resource for this training which can be downloaded from this repositories releases or viewed as link:https://gepardec.github.io/containerization-training/[github pages].

The release archive contains the following resources.

* `presentation` +
A asciidoc/revealjs based HMTL presentation
* `exercises` +
Asciidoc based HTML with the exercises
* `instructor` +
Asciidoc based HTML with the instructor demos
* `resources` +
Additional resources for the training such as exmaple applictions

== Training environment

The training environment will be provided to by your trainer, and is used for hands on with Docker. You will connect to the environment via ssh, whereby the ssh public key will be provided to you, and is only valid for the provisioned environment during the training.

.Connect to your environment.
[source,bash]
----
ssh ubuntu@<PROVIDED_AWS_URI> -i <PROVIDED_PUBLIC_KEY>
----

.Copy a directory to the environment.
[source,bash]
----
scp -r <LOCAL_DIR_PATH> buntu@<PROVIDED_AWS_URI>:<REMOTE_PATH> -i <PROVIDED_PUBLIC_KEY>
----

.Copy a directory from the environment.
[source,bash]
----
scp -r buntu@<PROVIDED_AWS_URI>:<REMOTE_PATH> <LOCAL_DIR_PATH> -i <PROVIDED_PUBLIC_KEY>
----

== Trainer 

This section is for trainers only, and documents how to prepare for a training.

=== Render Presentation/Exercises

The presentation and exercises are asciidoc resources whereby the presentation can be rendered to PDF via a http-server and a chromium browser. +
The exercises can be printed via a browser as any other website.

NOTE: All following commands must be either executed in the directory `/presentation` or `/exercises`. 

==== If Node is installed

.Get dependencies
[source,bash]
----
npm update
----

.Converts asciidoc to HTML
[source,bash]
----
node convert.js
----

==== If you want to use Docker

Get dependencies
```
docker run --rm \
-v $(pwd):/home/node \
-w /home/node node:latest \
npm update
```

.Render to HTML
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm \
-v $(pwd):/home/node \
-w /home/node node:18.7.0 \
convert.js
----

=== HTML to PDF

This applies only for the `presentation`.

1. Start webserver

.With node installed
[source,bash]
----
node_modules/http-server/bin/http-server
----

.With Docker 
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm \
-v $(pwd):/home/node \
-p 8080:8080 \
-w /home/node node:18.7.0 \
node_modules/http-server/bin/http-server
----

2. Open in Chrome/Chromium browser `http://localhost:8080/presentation?print-pdf` or `http://localhost:8080/exercises?print-pdf`
3. Open Chrome browser print dialog and save as pdf.

== Provision an training environment in AWS

We use AWS to provision a training environment, which is based on this link:https://github.com/Gepardec/train[git repository] which provides  
a link:https://github.com/Gepardec/train/pkgs/container/train[container image] which uses Terraform to provision the training environment.
These link:https://gepardec.github.io/train/[Github Pages] provide the documentation how our provisioning in AWS works.

You need Docker, an active AWS account and a set up AWS CLI on the host you want to provision the environment from.

NOTE: All of the following commands must be executed in the `/aws` directory.

.Provision an training environment
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm -it \
-v $(echo ~)/.aws:/root/.aws:ro \
-v $(pwd):/opt/train/workdir \
-v $(pwd)/bootstrap.sh:/opt/train/terraform/files/bootstrap/bootstrap.sh \
gepardec/train:latest apply
----

.De-provision an training environment
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm -it \
-v $(echo ~)/.aws:/root/.aws:ro \
-v $(pwd):/opt/train/workdir \
-v $(pwd)/bootstrap.sh:/opt/train/terraform/files/bootstrap/bootstrap.sh \
gepardec/train:latest destroy
----
